with CSS files in VD projects right now
there is no Styles applied to our page
so let's go to main Javascript file and
try to import CSS file that we're going
to create we're going to call new file
3. CSS and place it inside of source
assets
folder and here we'll just add some
basic styles to see that our CSS will be
applied we're going to make background
color of body dark gray and text color
white and so let's see what we is going
to do whenever it is that we import CSS
file as we can see Styles have been
applied right away to our page and here
is how it works whenever browser makes a
request to fetch this CSS file VI is
going to process this CSS file and
generate valid ecmascript module that
looks like this so by doing the request
to fetch that CSS file we got valid ecas
module in a browser and this code
contains instructions to inject our CSS
code onto the page we also May notice in
here that all those styles from CSS file
have been assigned to the constant with
CSS in a formal string and then this
string has been added to the style Tech
inside of the head element so let's take
a closer look at what kind of
Transformations are being applied
whenever we import CSS file let's open
up our inspector and whenever we request
CSS file from with server it basically
makes this transformation of CSS code
into valid ecmascript module and this is
how it makes it possible to directly
import CSS files as valid ecmascript
modules and here is one more way we can
import CSS files so by adding query
parameter called in line
to this import we can get the content of
this CSS file as a string into Styles
variable and then let's see what is
contain within this variable by printing
it in a console and when browser fetches
our main Javascript file it sees this
import so it makes another request to
the server to fetch CSS file but V also
sees that this request has query
parameter called in line and this is
kind of assigned to V that instead of
automatically injecting CSS Styles onto
the page it should directly return
content of this CSS file as a string so
in response it's going to generate valid
masr module where standard expert will
be exporting all the styles from the
imported CSS module and if we'll take a
look at the console sure enough we're
going to see those Styles as a string so
this is how we processes CSS files and
this is what transformation is going to
be applied in this case whole CSS code
will be converted to a string and this
string will be exported as a default
export from the generated ecmascript
module and then in our JavaScript code
we can do with those Styles anything we
want for example let's create new
element
style let's assign those styles to Inner
text property and then we're going to
find a head element and append our newly
created style element to the head and
this way we're going to end up with the
same result as if we would import CSS
file in a normal way without using
inline query parameter as we can see we
just manually injected those Styles
inside of head element formatting of
style Tech will be a little bit
different in here but the end result
will be the same and this is how it
handles CSS Imports let's go back to
main.js file remove everything from here
and leave only import of CSS file we're
going to continue working with CSS in
vid projects in the next lesson